We are in Ephesians chapter one verse 11 through 14.
We've been looking at some beautiful passages scripture and today as well.
I won't be able to go deep and it's purposeful because I want to actually just spend some time on more for the past weeks of just soaking and sitting between before the Lord.
And speaking, what do you want me to do with this word?
Let the word transform me.
The word's always informative, but it's always intended to be transformative, to conform us and transform us into the image of our God.
And we'll talk about that today, because we're gonna be sealed, and that's the title of the message, The Seal.
And let's read verse 11 through 14, Ephesians 1 in him.
Also, we have obtained an inheritance being predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will, that we who first trusted in Christ should be to the praise of his glory.
In him you
also trusted after you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation and whom also having believed you were sealed with the Holy spirit of promise who is the guarantee of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession to the praise of his glory.
You know what I found and I'm sure you have and it's not just
people who struggle with their security of, am I saved?
Because the devil has this way, John 10.10, still kill and destroy.
Jesus would say in that same verse, I've come that they may have life and that more abundant.
The devil's going to come and challenge the back end.
Is he really giving you an abundant life?
Do you think you're living a abundant, vibrant Christian life?
Well, let me tell you, especially, you know, last month in the Paul, 1.5% of the people believe Jesus Christ is Lord and Savior.
They live in a harsh environment.
It's rugged.
It's hard.
And you know what?
They're just happy to be saved.
They don't do what we do as an American so much is that we think
We should always have mountaintops that there are no valleys.
There are no illnesses.
There are no hardships.
And that's anything that you'll never find in the Bible.
The disciples after Jesus' resurrection, they live the abundant life.
but they lived it in the roughness of the environment around them, and yet they were still filled with the Holy Spirit, praises rising up to the heavens and giving thanks for all that the Lord has done.
And so I think there's a place that it's not just the insecurity we can have, especially when we find ourselves
Slipping back or I can't believe I said this or did this or thought this and then we go is God really moving in my life and these type of things but then also that challenge that comes with the The hard things of life am I really in the favor of the Lord?
Why am I making the point while the verse does for us make this point and if we never come to the security of our salvation that it is done and
will never live the abundant Christian life and go on and go, no matter how I've fallen, no matter how the situation or circumstances of life are, I know that I'm his and he is mine.
And then the security of also that there's just this place that God's with me, God's moving in my life.
and I have that security and I can go on and just rest in him.
And that's what these verses are and that's what he wants to do for us.
And so Father again, we pray this word, let it settle us and let it give us the security that we're in your hand and then the power to have a plan and a purpose.
Like you have done, our doing will do for us personally and what you would want to do in our lives.
Each personally, each of us have a different plan and purpose but it's all been put in by your divine order and we're going to rest in that today and we're going to take communion and we're going to base what you speak to us on the price that was paid for us to know that this is done and whatever it is before us
can and will be done.
In your name, in him as we read continually, amen.
Amen, and may I just remind you, perfect love wrote this book.
John 4-8, God is love.
Perfect love wrote this book for you.
And perfect love sees you, perfect love has his hand on you,
has his hand on your circumstances, and he wants to speak to us what perfect love is, does, and sees.
Verse 11, chapter one, let's read that.
In him also, we have obtained an inheritance, being predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will.
What a verse.
All these verses are amazing to me.
We'll put these notes out there.
They'll be tagged to the audio and video when this is done today.
And he uses three words that are kind of synonymous, synonyms of the same, but he's making this repetitive building on so that
we get the point that he's speaking of.
The theme of the verse is the inheritance and that it's his will, how it has come about.
In him we have obtained an inheritance.
Our inheritance is
forgiveness of sin.
Our inheritance is life everlasting.
Our inheritance is that we will see him face to face when we take our last breath here and step into glory.
But our inheritance is that I've given you life in that more abundant that he walks with us right now.
And he uses this word predestined.
People get wrapped up in that.
You know, we'll work through some of those things today.
But he says, all these things that I've done, all these things that I've spoken to through this, believe it or not, versus
three through 14, it's gonna take us four or five weeks to do them.
It's one grammatical sentence in the Greek.
It is considered one of the greatest grammatical sentences in all of writing.
And that's a lot of writing when you consider people like Aristotle and then to modern day that someone could write such a grammatically perfect, accurate sentence.
I couldn't even make it through the first four words without butchering the verb tenses of and using as it precede or proceed, you know, and as it a verb.
I'm just horrible, but what a genius.
And so of the Lord as he writes this, but we see these three words that all have the same.
Paul uses these three words to have the idea of the will they are expressed.
All three of them are to amplify the one idea of being created for his will, and everything he does is according to his will.
Two things, created for his will, his good pleasure, and then what everything he does in our life is according to his will.
Everything he's done is according to his will.
And we can go, sure.
But then we read it, and then we sit, and we're going to sit and ponder it.
everything you've done is according to your will.
And then we'll build on that.
But let's just look at these words right here.
Purpose means determination, the quality of being determined to do or achieve something.
Council, that Greek word, thought out plan, a series of steps to be carried out or goals to be accomplished, especially as the result of intent consideration.
And then this word will
in the Greek inclination attitude, an attitude of mine, especially one that favors one alternative over another.
He builds on these things, he amplifies these things, and he's making this point about these things, everything I've done, everything that you've read, 31,102 verses, had my purpose, had my intent, had my heart, and all of it was according to my will, and it was my will for you.
And there's a place that we take this book and start getting very personal about it.
Paul's not writing to a church and saying, this is the will for the church.
He's writing to individuals who make up a church and he speaks, this is God speaking.
I have a will for you.
I have a purpose for your life.
Everything that I've done has this purpose behind it.
And I want you to consider this.
What is one of the greatest lies
since the 1800s for this Western Hemisphere, evolution.
One of the great, it has more people deceived than any false religion or cult, people who pick up and believe on the theory of evolution.
It's just a theory.
That's a fact.
It's not repeatable.
Therefore, it can't be a law.
When they talk and they want to call it the law of evolution, a law must be repeatable.
And there is no scientific repetition, repeatability of evolution.
Those studies are out there.
You can go to our website of how we give a point, counterpoint to these theories of evolution and the likes of these things.
But the point of this is there is no worth in randomness, if you want to consider it that way.
If we're just a random happen chance, then we should just live by random ways and happen chance.
But if we are purposed by the will and heart of God, and we are purposed to be His, and we are purposed with a destiny that He has for us in the future when we die, but here in the world and life that we live now, then I'll say every drop of worth changes.
Every step that I take,
And again, we're going to get to this and talk more about this.
God, where I'm at right now, I know that I'm in your will.
I'm in your purpose.
And so even if I am backslidden or in rebellion, it's not his will that I would be backslidden or rebellion, but he will purpose to bring me back out of that.
to bring me back to the place that he has for me and to use these type of things, but down to get into just where we are and who we are today, I have a plan for your life.
And it went all the way back to Psalm 139, you were made with a purpose.
And if you think of God, everything that he's done has a plan and a purpose.
When he said, let there be light, there was a purpose, because the next thing was let there be.
earth that man would walk upon the earth the skies the sea then there was this divine predetermination of the fish and the animals and all these type of things but then there came the ultimate purpose and plan was the crowning of my creation is mankind and I'm willing to get my hands dirty can you picture that and we think it's just Adam but God walked
came to this earth, stepped on this earth after he spoke it into creation, but the only thing he created with his hands was you and I.
He's making this statement, I'm willing to get my hands dirty for you.
Then ultimately I'm going to be willing to get my hands bloody for you as I go to a cross.
And we think of this made with a purpose
Psalm 139 verse 13, for you formed my inward parts.
You covered me in my mother's womb.
I will praise you for I am fearfully and wonderfully made.
Marvelous are your works and that my soul knows very well.
My frame was not hidden from you when I was made in secret and skillfully rod in the lowest parts of the earth.
Your eyes saw my substance being yet unformed and in your book they are all written.
The days fashioned for me when as yet there was none.
God speaking I made you with the purpose and I fashioned and formed you for the days that you live and I know every day of your life and I know every day of the Q number of days in your life and all
of them are made with a specific purpose and I have an ultimate plan.
And the first part of the ultimate plan for anyone who has never heard this or come to consider this, the first part of the ultimate plan is to be his.
I formed you and I fashioned you for a personal intimate relationship with me.
That's what all this is about.
a relationship between the Creator and the created being.
And we're gonna read through, there's a free will that's given just like any marriage.
It's your choice to say I do or not.
But I'm offering you my love, my seal, we'll get there, that's the title of the message.
Then I'm asking you to marry me and have this intimate relationship with me.
Because everything that I've done from the creating of the heavens and the earth, forming you in your mother's womb and raising you up to the person that you are right now is so that we can have a personal relationship.
And maybe you're saying, I don't know what that is.
I've never considered those things.
The gospel is amazingly simple.
It's profoundly simple as ABC.
It's simply profound.
and simply profound in that God is going to come and be willing to trade places with us to buy us out of the debt of sin that we've studied for these last two weeks.
And it's ABC, admit, believe and confess, admit, Romans 3, 23, all of sin and fall short of the glory of God.
We've broken his holy law, and therefore we're guilty, just as if we broke the law here in Anne Arundel County, we would have to pay a penalty for that
law that we broke, well here we're breaking holy laws written by God and they come with a penalty even greater, Romans 6.23, the wages of sin is death, because he's holy.
And we can say that's harsh until we come to the price that was paid, believed.
The only way for the forgiveness and cleansing of sin is through Jesus Christ and the finished work there upon the cross, John 3.16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son.
that whoever should believe in him shall not perish but have everlasting life.
Verse 17 goes on, for God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved.
And this is, believe is, there's only one way, John 14.6, Jesus would say, and we talked about this in past studies, John 14.6, I am the only way, I am the only truth, and I am the only life.
And no man can come to the Father except only by me.
And it's gonna come through this cross.
And what was the man do?
Confession means to agree with Romans 10, nine.
If you confess with your mouth, the Lord Jesus, believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you'll be saved.
For with the heart, one believes on to righteousness and with the mouth, confession is made on to salvation.
Righteousness means to be made right.
The power of this is the resurrection that God raised him from the dead.
Because if there was no resurrection, if Jesus died on the cross and went to a grave and never rose again, we'd all sit here and go, was the substitute accepted?
This trade that he said, I'll take your sin so that you can become a son and a daughter.
If he stayed in the grave, wouldn't we all go?
He just died like the rest of Krishna and Muhammad and Buddha and the rest, but only one ever rose from the grave and therefore is the one.
when he just went home to be with the Lord.
He said, um, because he traveled the whole world and he was a pastor and this and that.
And he said, yeah, somebody gave up to me and he was totally serious.
And, uh, I've met people like this.
I am starting a new religion because I believe this is the way to God.
And he laid it out and he said to Gower.
And what do you think about that?
He goes, ah, I'll tell you what, die.
and raised from the dead in three days and I'll follow you.
So here's Jesus makes it clear there is no doubt about this.
So we've been made with a purpose, his will.
When we talk about being sealed, it puts a seal upon us.
It's like it's literally a wedding ring that he offers us.
But based on what I just said,
Can you trust his will for your life right now?
I don't think there's a one of us that wishes something was a little different or something was a little better, right?
Or maybe you're in a really hard place.
Relationally, financially, health, vocationally, children, and the likes.
Can you trust him that he has and will work a purpose in the midst of those things?
Because all these things are still part of a fallen world.
If we look at the will for Jesus Christ, it was to step into a fallen world and pay a price for sin that brought glory to God and to anyone that would follow.
If we look at the life of the disciples, the apostles, their purpose didn't become easy.
But their purpose and the hard place that they were led thousands and millions.
And here we sit today to salvation.
The apostle Paul recorded these words for us from prison.
Based on what we are at, where we're talking, can you trust his will for your life right now?
I just want you to think about it.
I don't want to fly through it and give information.
I sat here and I had to go.
You know what, Lord?
A lot of things I would love to see changed in my life.
Because I live in a fallen world.
But I trust you.
That he who began a good work will be faithful to complete it.
And what the enemy intended for evil, God, you're going to turn for good.
I don't know what it all looks like.
I know what the war looks like in every situation.
But as we've been building last week and two weeks ago as we ended the year, what does 2026 look like for you?
There's a saying that we always say, aim at nothing, and I guarantee you'll hit it.
See what I mean by that?
You aim at nothing, you'll hit it.
I like what Tozer said, AW Tozer, great teacher.
author, he said, um, anything that keeps me from my Bible is an enemy.
So boy, there's a lot we can lay out for all these things that kind of get a preemptive place rather than just sitting for what, 20 minutes, 40 minutes.
You know, in 40 minutes, you can read six chapters and just read it in 20 minutes a day.
And I don't mean this as a drip, I'm talking to myself.
20 minutes a day, you can read like three chapters a day, you can read the whole Bible in a year.
And I just start with is what is, did I put that out?
What is your study plan?
There's a purpose with this because the theme is purpose today.
What's your prayer plan this year today?
What's your fasting plan?
It's a call from the Lord, fasting.
What is your family plan?
How do I invest in my family this year?
What is your marriage plan?
What do I purposely plan to do regarding my marriage?
Because if you aim at nothing, if you just kind of go along with it, it just kind of blows wherever the wind blows.
But it's a whole different thing of, I'm going to purpose and have a plan.
And then what's your ministry serving plan?
that you have for the Lord.
What's your worship plan?
Where I worship you and just give you praise and glory.
What is my plan for 2026 to draw close to the Lord?
I purpose this to read these verses for you to pray.
And then as we do communion, we're going to hold the communion cup here shortly to go.
Whatever I purpose, he can
do and accomplish because the price that was paid Ephesians 5 verse 15 see that you walk circumspectly not as fools but as wise redeeming the time because the days are their evil therefore not do not be unwise but understand what is the will of the Lord and there's that plan that I look at of what's what's my study plan or how about what's my
Second Timothy 2 15 be diligent to present yourself approved to God a worker who does not need to be ashamed rightly dividing the word of truth There's my study plan again Matthew 9 29 So he said this kind come out by nothing, but prayer and fasting I think it's it's hard, but it's powerful and
where I say, I'm going to dedicate one day a week or one day a month or one meal a week to simply separate fast.
Maybe there's a place in your life you go, you know what, for the next three days, I'm just not even gonna do social media.
I'm not gonna do YouTube videos.
I'm gonna use that time instead to sit and go, Lord, what's your purpose?
What's your will in my life?
Let me speak to these things for my life.
Here's one for the family plan, Joshua 24-15.
And if it seems evil to you to serve the Lord, choose for yourself this day whom you will serve, whether the gods which your father served that were on the other side of the river, or the gods of the Amorites and whose land you dwell, but as for me in my house, we will serve the Lord.
My house, we're gonna serve
the Lord.
Ephesians 6, children.
Here's a family plan.
Obey your parents and the Lord for this is right.
Honor your father and mother, which is the first commandment with promise that it may be well with you and may live long on the earth.
Here's a marriage plan.
Husbands ought to love their wives as their own body.
He who loves his wife loves himself.
What is a marriage plan for you?
Just real simple.
I'm going to love my spouse.
Fill in something?
No.
I'm going to love my spouse, period.
That's my plan.
And now Lord, how do I do that?
And there's where we have the plan.
Matthew 25 verse 37, as we get into serving,
Then the righteous will answer him, saying, Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you or thirsty and give you drink?
When did we see you a stranger or take you in or naked in cloth you?
Or when did we see you sick or in prison and come to you?
And the king will answer and say to them, but shortly I say to you, as much as you did it to the one of the least of these, my brother, and you did it to me.
There's the, what's my serving plan, my ministry plan to serve you.
As you call me, Hebrews chapter two, verse 11,
11 and 12 for both he who sanctifies and those who are being sanctified set apart that's what it means are all of one for which reason he is not ashamed to call them brethren saying I will declare your name among my brethren in the midst of the assembly I will sing to you the Lord says I worship in your midst and so he gives us a word well you know what how's my gonna worship this year
And I think there's just the beauty of going to go for the walk with the Lord, or I want to go sit on a park bench or something, listen to worship, or just sit and go, Lord, you're beautiful.
Lord, I marvel at your creation.
Lord, you are might in your power as I look at the sun, the moon, and the stars.
Lord, as I look at this creation before me, this person, this child, this baby.
Oh, what genius and might you have.
And Lord, I praise you for it.
Oh, I tell you what, when you praise, it unleashes the spirit of God.
And I mean that in a wonderful, warming way.
It's just beautiful.
And then the verse that I go,
You know, what's my purpose?
Everything that I said really comes down to this one thing.
What's my plan?
How am I going to?
Because if you don't plan it, I doubt you ever hit it.
James 4-8, draw near to God and He will draw near to you.
Cleanse your heart and hands, you sinners and purify your hearts, you double mind.
He's making the point of just draw near to me.
And we're going to pray that at the end and we're going to loop back around on that, but we're going to
lock it in based on verses 12, 13 and 14.
So to give us time to do that, let's look at verse 12.
It goes on to say that we who first trusted in Christ should be to the praise of His glory.
Ties in its lines right in with verse 13, in whom you also trusted.
So the two tying together of trusted in Christ.
After you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, in whom also having believed you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise.
But back to that verse 12,
We don't notice it until we notice it.
But it's a beautiful thing.
We keep reading this.
We'll read it because it's one sentence.
And then we've done this over four weeks.
But back in Ephesians 1, 5, and 6, I want you to notice the praise of His glory, verse 11 and 12, praise of His glory, 13 and 14, praise of His glory.
But here's the amazing thing.
That first one.
Ephesians 1, 5 through 6.
That's speaking of the son here or the father.
And well, let's just look at it.
Having predestined us to adoption as sons by Jesus Christ to himself according to the good pleasure of his will to the praise and glory of his grace by which he made us accepted in the above.
Here's the father.
There's the trinity and the praise and the glory and the point that I'm building on.
The father, son, and the Holy Spirit, mind blowing trinity.
That's about as far as I can explain it, other than it blows my mind.
One God in three persons, but one God.
The Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit are all giving praise and singing over you.
as we build on these and we look at these Ephesians 1 11 and 12 in him also we have obtained an inheritance being predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will that we who first trusted in Christ should be to the praise and then here we see the spirit Ephesians 1 13 and 14 in him also
trust in him you also trusted after you heard the word of truth the gospel of your salvation and whom also having believed you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise which is the guarantee of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchase price to the praise of his glory he's what he's saying is it brings God the whole father son Holy Spirit dismissed this whole thing and the angry father and a you know loving son or whatever it's the father son in Holy Spirit just the depths of love that they have for us
and to redeem us and to bring us salvation and to put a seal upon us, it brings praise and glory to them and it brings praise and glory to their heart and it brings me to this place as F and I of 317 the Lord would say, I sing over them.
The whole trinity is singing over us.
The whole complete God, every form and being and fiber of God is singing over us and brings praise and glory
to him as we are set apart and redeemed by him.
And then he gives this great promise in verse 13 that says again, in him, you also trusted after you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, in whom also having believed, you were sealed with the Holy spirit of promise.
Notice that after you have believed,
There's a spirit that moves to speak involved in our ability to hear and trust.
John 16 verse 8 through 11.
And when he has come, speaking of the spirit, he will convict the world of sin and of righteousness and of judgment.
of sin because you do not believe in me, of righteousness because I go to my Father, and you see me no more of judgment because the ruler of this world is judgment.
This is the heart of the gospel.
The Holy Spirit comes and convicts us.
We would never believe the ABC if the Holy Spirit didn't come and say, your sin separates you from the Holy God.
The spirit is saying, you need a savior because there is, you are not righteous means right standing.
You're not right with God because of your sin.
And there is a judgment to come.
And it gives this beautiful word so that we can do something about it.
And all that we have to do is believe that Jesus Christ did the work.
Romans 310 as it's written.
There's none righteous.
No, not one.
There's none who understands or none who seeks after God.
They all have turned aside.
They have all together become unprofitable.
There's none who does good.
No, not one.
We couldn't save ourselves.
We wouldn't understand this, but the Spirit comes and speaks.
You need a Savior.
I don't want you to perish.
All this purpose and plan that I have, everything that is done is so that we can have this intimate relationship one with another.
but it will be nothing but Jesus Christ.
And notice, and it's, I've never been able to understand this.
I've been 35 some years with the Lord, Bible college, blah, blah, blah.
You gotta study to show yourself approved, study all the doctrine and theology and stuff like that.
I still always just get amazed why anyone wants to argue
about these doctrines that you hear, that people want to argue, you know, God's sovereignty, man's free will, man has no free will, God makes all the determination.
It just made it really clear right here that we wouldn't understand this if the Holy Spirit didn't speak to us, but we
Do not come into salvation any other way then after him.
You also trusted after you heard the word of truth.
Our part was the hearing and the believing and trusting.
His part was the calling and the doing and the providing.
I have no problem with that.
I don't have to struggle with it.
All I have to sit and go is I believe that.
And then people even get wrapped up in this one saved always saved.
And it just comes real simple to me.
I go, do you believe that Jesus Christ died for your sin?
And then he paid the price for the penalty was against you.
And they go, yeah, I go, then you're saved.
What's the discussion about having believed?
Well, can I lose my salvation?
Well, let me ask you this question.
Do you believe that Jesus Christ died for your sin?
I don't need to go and look in the past or look in the future.
I'm just gonna ask you right now.
Do you believe this verse 13?
Do you believe this verse 12 right here?
That we who first trusted in Christ should be to the praise of his glory.
In him you also trusted after you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation and whom also having believed you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise.
Well let's get to the good part then.
Let's talk about, oh well,
Let me put it this way before I forget.
Why are we so active in world missions?
Why are we active in community missions?
Why are we on the radio trying to put the word of God out through Baltimore City and the likes of these type of things?
Because we believe men, women need to hear the gospel to be saved and that God's going to somehow
Bring them to this knowledge of understanding and reach them through this word of God And there's this beautiful place of Romans 10 14 and what I want to just encourage you What's your plan and purpose for the Great Commission?
How will you fulfill that?
Prayer is power you want I Can't go into Baltimore City.
I tell you what you pray every day at 12 30 because
97.5 Hope FM, that's when this Bible study goes out into Baltimore City.
The very things we talk about from week to week turns into a radio and goes through Baltimore City, goes to Randall County, goes all the way up to the Pennsylvania line.
or pray for the good news club going into the public school or pray for the missions that we're going to do in the Cambodian, the Paul and who knows what else God has for us this year or the missions that we simply do by feet into the streets of Baltimore, Romans 10 14.
And here's what the Lord will say.
Oh, how beautiful.
How then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed?
So we just read, but God calls them, but then He comes, He gives us Roman complete counsel.
God, well how then how shall they call on Him in whom they have not believed, and how shall they believe in Him whom they have not heard, and how shall they hear without a preacher?
And how shall they preach unless they are sent as it is written?
How beautiful are the feet of those who preach the gospel of peace, who bring glad tidings of good things.
But they have not all obeyed the gospel.
For Isaiah said,
Lord, who has believed our reports, so then faith comes by hearing, hearing by the word of God.
Hey, by the way, Isaiah 5511.
It won't return void.
You want one of the simplest, easiest, beautiful feet ministries.
This Bible, their name, my greatest treasure.
You don't even have to say anything else.
You've just given them the word of God.
How then shall they hear?
Here, I just gave you the word of God.
then your ministry, I'm going to pray that you can come to an understanding.
Well, to wrap this up, so we do communion here.
Um, verse 14, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession to the praise of his glory?
Um, guarantee this Greek word.
Uh, it also, it's the Greek word Arabon.
Now it doesn't,
necessarily mean that's the word for the engagement ring.
But what the word means is it's a guarantee.
It's a down payment.
It's earnest.
And in that culture, well there's still cultures today actually in places there in the Middle East, North Africa, those type of regions.
A man wants the bride.
comes to the father, I want this bride.
And when she comes of age or through this series of a year, and I won't go all into the depths of the engagement process, I want to give the father a down payment, whatever the father decides, and that money says, I'm coming back for her.
And if he doesn't come back, guess what?
He loses all the money.
But the money is put down of, I'm coming for this bride to take her and bring her to my home.
Usually it was a one year engagement period there in Israel.
Then they would consummate the marriage and have a seven day festival.
It's fascinating the whole process as you consider the marriage supper of the lamb that's going to happen when he takes us out of here and takes us home to be with him.
as we read the book of Revelation.
But this word, Erebon, it was a guaranteed, it was a bride pie, it was a dowry, it was a financial pledge, three things about it.
It was legally binding in the culture that we're reading of this writing, especially there in Israel.
It was personally costly.
It wasn't a cheap, you know, here's a couple pieces of silver.
It was a large price and it was irrevocable.
And so if you didn't come for your bride, you lost a down payment.
Now you got to think about this.
The Lord for us, his bride puts his Holy spirit in us.
It's impossible for him not to come for us then.
Once it's in, it's irrevocable.
It can't be removed.
And God would have to, God would have to deny himself to break this promise.
And we know as a scripture say, God can't deny himself.
And so he puts a seal upon us.
It's his holy spirit.
It's this down payment.
It's a promise.
I'm coming for my bride.
And there's a place when this last breath is over, he comes and gets us and takes us home with us.
I was grown up in Western Pennsylvania years ago.
It was my first vehicle.
It was a motorcycle.
I think it was a Honda CB360.
I can still remember.
I loved my motorcycles, especially up in Pennsylvania.
Just beautiful country.
We grew up in outside and just going for rides and enjoying them.
Well, it was time for me to move on and go to college down in Florida.
I wasn't taking my bike.
I'll just go buy a new bike down in Florida.
So I had to put my bike up for sale as much as I didn't want to part with it, but
Beautiful bike put the bike up for sale a guy came to say I want to buy the bike I think the price then was like a thousand dollars And he goes shows up his friend comes with him drives him up and so that he could ride the bike home if you know It panned out the way they thought soon as he shows up because it's a beautiful bike man.
I want this bike and
He goes, I guess all I really need to do though is just make sure, you know, all is well mechanically and take it for a ride.
I said, sure, absolutely.
I said, you'll have to give me a down payment because, you know, I don't know you.
Something could happen, this and that.
He goes, what's the down payment?
I go, $1,000.
Not $100.
The full price, $1,000.
That's the down payment.
He hands me the $1,000 that he brought with him because of the plan that he would buy it.
I'd sign the title deed over to him.
Hands me the $1,000, takes the bike for the ride.
We lived on a dead end.
It was a mile down and then road barrier because the road caved in.
We lived in the mining community and it was all caving in from the coal mines and stuff.
And it was a mile down and a mile back.
and it's he takes off he goes riding he goes over to hill once you go over the hill you can't see anymore and he's gone for I don't know 10 minutes I look at his friend I go you know this road's only a mile long and I go it's not that long of a road and we wait and wait then he comes
back up and then we lived on a hill so he comes over now he's coming back down the hill to our driveway where we're waiting and as he's coming down the driveway I can look down the side of the bike all the taillights are busted you know the taillights hanging the uh the crash bars all scraped up the gas tank got scratches not totally damaged though but the um the exhaust pipe got all this road rash on it and then he's got some road rash on it and he pulls up and he's got
this big smile and he looks at me goes, I'll take it.
And I go, I'm sitting in my mind.
Yes, you will.
That was the down payment.
And it was a paid in full.
And this is what the Lord, I'm putting a down payment.
I am paying in full.
Because when we think down payment, you know, a couple hundred bucks of a large thousand, no, it's
paid in full, it's my Holy Spirit.
in you, and it puts this seal upon you.
And the beautiful thing of this word for this seal is, and these notes are there for your reading.
It's not meant to read all these to you.
But, you know, remember when Daniel, Lion's Den, and there was a seal put upon that.
You remember Esther, when she sends the letter out to say, defend yourself.
And on this day, there was a seal that was put, because what would happen in
seal and of course we have the tune being sealed is you would wrap it with a rope and tie it whatever that content was.
And then there would be hot wax that would be poured on where the rope would be tied.
And that hot wax then, there would be a sigint ring.
And it would be pressed into that hot wax.
And the sigint ring had a very, very specific image.
And everyone could look and go, oh, that's the image of so-and-so.
King so-and-so, king so-and-so.
That's their sigint ring.
It bears their image.
And it was meant to be this that that content could not be an
broken or unopened or cut in any way apart from being in the presence of the one who put the press of that signet ring on those things.
And so as we read through there, we'll see that it was for security so no one could open and tamper.
I want you to understand, everywhere that I'm going to say is what the Holy Spirit's doing for us.
There's a security.
My seal is upon you, just like the
Tomb couldn't be broken into, just like the line 10 couldn't be entered into.
Whatever the content of that shipment, no one could open it and tamper with it.
And there was a seal for authenticity.
The one who sealed it has the authority.
And that's the other one of the authority.
whoever seal is on there has the authority now over this content.
And then lastly in Jeremiah 32 when he bought the field and they opened, there was a seal and it was a proof of the ownership.
And if we just take that and we just rest in that today, and we're gonna tie that together as we're gonna pray, take communion together, what is my purpose and plan for 2026?
What's my reading plan?
What's my prayer plan?
What's my fasting plan?
What's my worship plan?
What's my family plan?
What's my ministry plan?
What's my serving plan?
What is my drawing near to God plan?
And all these things, and I sit back and I go, do you have a security over me?
that nobody can get in and tamper with.
And there is power.
And of course, this seal proves who owns me, who has the ultimate responsibility now over my life to get me to my destination, of course, and who has the authority over my life.
And the powerful part of this is the seal always
for the image.
Genesis 1.26, then God said, let us make man in our image according to our likeness.
Let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and the birds of the air, over the cattle, over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth."
Romans 8, 29, verse 30, for whom he foreknew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren, moreover whom he predestined these he also called, whom he called these he also justified, and whom he justified these he also glorified.
I called you and and the beauty of all these things that he's saying here the predestination and the justification and the glorification but all of it's gonna come to this one thing that you're gonna bear my image and you're gonna have this resemblance of
of me when people see you there's a resemblance of me because you bear my image and that's the seal that's put upon your life and in the Roman culture and we know it as we read anyone breaks the seal if you break the seal on the tomb you were a dead man because you just broke the seal of the one who put that image on there not meant for reading but all these notes are in here revelation
gives us one more thing before we take communion here in a minute.
This is how powerful the seal is.
in Revelation 5.
And I saw at the right hand of him who sat on the throne a scroll written inside.
And on that back sealed with seven seals.
Then I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, who is worthy to open the scroll and lose its seal.
And no one in heaven on earth or under earth was able to open the scroll or to look at it until Jesus came and opened the seal.
No one can break this seal that's upon us.
except the Lord.
And we just read he would have to deny himself to break the seal.
And the power of this seal, Revelation
seven, then I saw another angel, sending from the east, having the seal, the living God.
And he cried with a loud voice to the four angels, to whom it was granted to harm the earth and the sea, saying, do not harm the earth, the sea, or the trees, till we have sealed the servants of our God on their forehead.
And I heard the number of those who were sealed.
144,000 of the tribe of the children of Israel were sealed in Revelation 9.
They were commended not to harm the grass of the earth or any green
or any tree, but only these men who did not have the seal of God on the forehead.
The seal that's pictured here in Revelation, the seal that's upon us goes on the 12 tribes of Israel, 12,000 each, 144,000 that will live through this tribulation period with the devil in hot pursuit continually, but never being able to touch them.
And here we see again, here's what the Lord says, my seal is so powerful.
that no one can touch them.
And this is the seal that he puts upon us.
And so powerful was this seal that I want to wrap for us.
Even the devil can't break it.
Revelation 20 verse two, he laid hold of the dragon, the serpent of old, who is the devil and Satan and bound him for a thousand years, cast him into the bottomless pit and shut him up and set a seal on him.
so that he should not deceive the nations no more till the thousand years were finished, but after these things he must be released for a little while.
Satan can't even break the seal when God puts the seal on him.
Satan can't touch the 144,000 because God seals upon them.
And what we just read, and let's read it and take communion.
Ephesians chapter 1 verse 11 through 14,
In him also we have obtained an inheritance being predestined according to the purpose of him who worked all things according to the counsel of his will.
There's a plan and purpose that we who first trusted in Christ should be to the praise of his glory.
In him you also trusted after you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation and whom also having believed you were sealed with the Holy spirit of promise.
who is the guarantee of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession to the praise of his glory.
Lord, I thank you.
There is no randomness happen chance in our life.
Everything about our lives, you have a plan and purpose for it.
Even in the pain, even in the heartaches, even in the hard times, there's a plan and purpose for our life.
And based on what we read, we know that we're sealed and nothing can touch us apart from what you would let into us.
And there is a down payment that you will guarantee that your spirit, you cannot even deny yourself and you never will.
And you will stand and you will hold us and say their mind, bought with the precious blood.
And Lord, I thank you and we thank you for the power of the seal.
Thank you, Lord.
that there was a plan and purpose to redeem us.
There's a plan and purpose in our life today.
And Lord, we're holding a cup in our hand that proves the price to be paid and proves that it is done.
And based on the power of what's in our hand, can you not accomplish whatever plan you would purpose for us today
specifically 2026.
It's the year that is before us.
We'll worry about the next year, next year.
Just in the quietness of our heart, Lord, would you stir for us?
What's our plan to study your word that won't return void?
Speak to us a plan for prayer to draw near to you and fasting to deny our flesh and to slow us down because we're going too fast.
Therefore we're going too fast so that we can draw near to God and you'll draw near to us.
Then we'll work whatever the ministry you called us to serve together with you
or how beautiful the feet are, and then the beauty of the relationships that we have.
How will we purpose and be very specific?
What's behind us, let us not live in the regret of them.
Let us take what's before us and invest in the relationships that we do have for the time that is now.
We know that we can do this.
We know that there's a power because there's a spirit that lives us inside of us.
Zachariah 4-6, not by might nor by power, but by thy spirit.
We know it was done because the body that was given there upon the cross.
We take this bread and we do it in remembrance.
And Lord, this cup that you give us past, present, future, one drop of it,
cleanses us from all unrighteousness.
It's a reminder of the seal and the promise that's been put down for our very lives.
You said you'll take it and you redeemed us and therefore Lord we can rest in that and whatever the purpose you give for us we know there's a power that comes with it because it was bought not with
silver and gold, but with the precious blood of Jesus.
We take this and we do it in remembrance of you.
Let us worship one more song.
We'll say goodbye to the online folks and let's just meditate and then we'll wrap it up in prayer.